All right, so now that we've got our first unit test working, we're ready to jump to a second unit
test.
So we need to think of what the next logical, reasonable scenario to test.
So we started off with.
What I would propose is probably the simplest possible thing you could do with a calculator that can
add, which is to simply add zero plus zero.
So now maybe we do, you know, one plus one or one plus zero or something like that.
So OK, the way we can do this is to first select this first test method, including the annotation,
which we will need, and I'm going to copy that.
And then I'm going to make a new line here and I'm going to paste a duplicate.
And now we can just make a new method name here.
So I think I'm going to test can add one plus one.
Let's do that one plus.
One now, of course, we're not going to just keep making these simple test scenarios exhaustively,
but we want a few and I will show you why in just a moment.
All right.
So now we're going to test one plus one.
So what do we need to change in this second method to make this a valid test?
Well, we need to change our parameters that we're passing in, right?
We're currently passing in zero and zero to be added.
So now we want to pass in one and one.
All right.
And then we need to update our assertion because now we expect that adding one plus one should equal
two.
Right.
So let's put that there.
And then if you're going to keep this message, I'm going to get rid of this message for now because
we don't need it.
I was just wanting to show that you can have that option.
All right.
Assert that the sum of one plus one is two.
That's basically basically what we're saying here.
All right.
Now we already know that this is going to fail because if we jump over to the calculator class, by
the way, the way I just did that, there are so many ways to jump around in the ADP is I held down
on the command, key or control.
I believe in Windows and Linux.
I held down on the command key and then hovered over a class in this case calculator.
And then I clicked once OK, oh, I'm sorry, actually, for Windows and Linux, you can do control
be.
Control be all right, and so we can see here that we're hard coding a zero.
Right?
So we already know that this next test scenario is going to fail.
However, we're not going to change this yet because we don't change or write any additional code in
the system under test.
That is the class that we're testing until we see our test fail and therefore forcing us to modify the
system under test to get that test to stop failing.
And this is an important key point in TDD.
So if we jump back over to the calculator test, let's go ahead and run both of these tests now and
see what happens.
So I'm going to run all the tests in the class by selecting the play button on the class itself.
Run calculator test.
OK.
And so now over here, we see again that it ran the tests in 105 milliseconds and we see the two test
methods.
The first one can add zero plus zero passed and we see that indicated with the green checkmark.
But then the second test we ran failed and we see that with the little yellow X, and we can click on
that if we want to to kind of zoom in on it.
And so over here, we see that we expected it to.
But we actually got zero, which makes sense because we hardcoded a zero or we didn't really do it.
The I.D. generated that when we created that method.
All right, so we can see that that's wrong.
So here's the basic recipe for programming in TDD.
We write a test, we write the minimum amount of test that we won't have any errors.
And so to not have any errors, we had to create a minimum amount of this calculator class.
And the minimum amount of that calculator class with this method of add was to return something.
And so the ADP generated a method to return a zero.
And we left it at that.
And then we ran the test now by virtue of the fact that we chose a scenario where we were adding zero
and zero.
It just so happened that that test automatically passed, but normally what we would do is we would
write a minimal amount of test with a minimal assertion.
We would run that test and first see it fail.
Then we would modify the code in the system under test, which again in this case would be the calculator
class.
We would modify the code in that system under test in the most minimal way possible to just make that
test pass.
And that means if you have to, you can just hard code a value in there without trying to get fancy.
That would be the most minimal thing you could do in that case.
And then you rerun the test again and you get it to pass.
Now, in this case, we want to keep this test working while also enabling our second test to work.
So if we jump back into the calculator class again, in that case, it would not be appropriate to simply
hard code A to here because we already know that that would cause the first test to fail.
And we don't want to go backward if we can help it.
We want all of the tests in that class to pass.
And so I would argue that the simplest thing we can do to make both of those tests pass would be to
do the actual math now number one plus number two.
However, let me jump back over to the test class again.
Let us imagine for a moment that we had started off with our first test being this one.
In this case, if this had been the only test in this class initially, then we would have started off
with this method being returning a zero and we would have seen the one plus one scenario fail.
And then the most minimal thing to do to get that test to pass would have been to simply hardcoded two,
and that would have been the correct and proper thing to do under the general ideas of TDD.
OK.
And then we would have had to write a second test before it would force us to do something more involved,
like doing the actual math.
OK, so I want to make that point.
You don't write any more code than you absolutely have to to get the tests passing.
But once you have a test passing and you add additional tests, you ideally don't want to do things
that would break previously working test if you can help it.
All right.
And so now in this case, we have to test methods here.
And to keep both of them working, I would say that the simplest thing we can do is to actually just
do the actual math now.
All right.
But in general, you want to write a new test, see it fail, then revise your code to make it pass.
So now if we go back over to the test class, actually, we don't even have to technically go back over
to the test class because we've got this test pane open right here.
So if you click on this little green button here, we can rerun all of the tests on the calculator class,
even while we're on this calculator class here.
So I'm going to click that to cause all the tests to be rerun A. And look at that now, both of our
tests are passing.
So good success there.
All right.
Now I'm going to jump back over to the test class.
So now we would want to consider what would be some additional scenarios to test on adding now.
One scenario that I can think of next might be perhaps we'd want to test what happens when we pass negative
numbers, or at least one of the parameters could be negative.
Right?
So I'd like to challenge you now.
Why don't you go ahead and create one or more additional test methods where you're testing out some
other scenarios?
So like I said, one good scenario I can think of would be to test what happens when you pass in at
least one negative parameter.
Maybe also another one where you pass in two negative numbers.
So why don't you do that and then jump back when you're done?
All right.
Did you do that?
Hopefully, that was pretty easy for you to do.
I don't think I'm going to demonstrate that because it should be the same pretty much as what you've
got here.
And then you would have just had to remember to update what you're expecting.
All right.
One unfortunate aspect of writing unit tests is that they are only as good as the scenarios that you
can think of, OK?
And for that reason, a lot of companies actually employ professional testers.
And one of those testers jobs is to think of good scenarios for testing separately and distinctly from
the people who are actually writing the code.
But in this particular case, we're wearing both hats.
All right.
So now we've got two working tests here.
So now the next logical thing to do, by the way, I'm going to I'm going to close that pain to give
us a little more space here.
So now a next logical thing to do in unit testing would be to look for any duplication in our code and
do what is called refactoring to refactor our code so that there is less duplication.
All right.
So do you see any obvious duplication here?
I see one thing.
All right.
I'm looking at lines 11 and line 18.
These are 100 percent identical lines of code, and we want to find duplication like this every so often
and figure out if there's a good way to get rid of it.
Duplication is not our friend when we are coding both in tests and in production code.
We don't want duplication.
If we can reasonably do something about it.
So now the question is, well, what can we do about this duplication?
Well, there are a couple of things I can think of that we could do fairly easily.
One of them is a technique that we've actually already seen a couple of times in previous lessons.
So we're creating a calculator instance here, right?
And then we're storing that instance in this local variable called calc so that we can then call the
add method on the calculator.
Right?
And we're doing that in both test methods.
Can you think of what we might be able to do to reduce the amount of duplication?
I'll give you a moment.
If you want to pause, OK?
So one thing we could do is to convert this local variable into a field.
And we've done this before, right?
And so it could be as easy as just cutting, selecting this whole thing, cutting it and then pasting
it into a field of the calculator class, right?
And then just referring to the calculator right here.
Another way you could do that is to select the local calc variable.
Right click on it, go down to refactor and introduce field.
Which is pretty much the same thing.
And then in the initialize option here, you could select field declaration.
And as a reminder, what that means is the initialization is this part right here where we say equals
new calculator, right?
So that's where your your initializing are setting the value of this variable here.
So it's asking where do we want to do this equals new calculator business?
Do we want to do it in the field declaration, which is to say, you know, would we want to do it up
here where we're actually putting the field?
Or we could do it in the current method, which is what's happening right now?
Where do we want to do this?
Equals new calculator business.
So if we choose field declaration and then hit return.
That just ends up basically copying that same line of code that we had like this one here that basically
just copies it up here and then it adds a couple of little safekeeping keywords to it.
It makes it private by default, which is generally always a good thing to to default to your fields,
to private unless you absolutely must make them public or some some other level of visibility.
And it makes it final, which prevents this field from being set to some other value other than this
new calculator.
Later on in the code, and again, that's kind of just the safety mechanism that's usually a good idea
to do.
All right.
So by moving this up into a field, the aid has gotten rid of that line here.
And now we can actually come down here to line 19 and get rid of it from here as well by just deleting
it.
OK.
So in other words, what we're saying is let's create a new instance of a calculator.
We only need one calculator for both of these methods anyway.
Right?
And here it is, right?
And so now we're referring to this one instance of a calculator from both of these methods, rather
than having two separate instances of a calculator which is wasteful and unnecessary.
All right.
So that's one way we could do it.
I'm going to undo this, though, and I'm going to show you another very common way to do this, especially
in unit testing.
So the other thing we could have done is to select this calculator variable again.
Go through all the same steps, so refactor introduce field.
But this time for the initialise in portion, we can go down here to set up and choose set up and then
hit return.
So now this approach is kind of interesting.
What it does is it still introduces a field of calc, right?
So that part is kind of the same.
It still makes it private.
It does not make it final, though, and the reason it doesn't make it final is because we are not initializing
it in this declaration here.
So this this area here is the declaration.
This is where this is, where we declare to Java that we want a variable of type calculator.
OK, we're declaring that here, but we're not setting it here.
We're not actually storing an instance of a calculator at this time.
Instead, the idea has generated a new method for us called Set.
And it is in this setup method that we are instantiating a calculator and storing it in this field.
OK.
And then notice that the IDE has also annotated this setup method with this at before each annotation.
Now this annotation is specific to J Unit.
And let me explain what it does and how this works.
So just as we can annotate any public void method with an at test annotation to tell the J Unit testing
framework that that is a method that should be run as a test, we can also annotate any void method
to be run for setting data up right before J Unit runs any test method.
So what would happen in this case is if we were to tell the unit to run the tests in this class, j
unit would find all of the tests that are annotated with at Test, so that would be these two.
And then right before it ran the code in this test, it would actually run this code first, which would
instantiate a new calculator object and stored in this field.
Then it would run this test method and use that newly instantiated calculator, which is stored in this
field.
It would run this test, get the assertion, etc. And then before it jumped down to running this test,
it would run this again, which means it would create a second instance of a calculator.
But it would store that instance in this same field, which means that the first calculator instance
would now become kind of orphaned, if you will.
It would become de reference.
No variable would be pointing in any longer to that first calculator instance and when an object in
Java is no longer being referenced.
Meaning no, no variable is pointing to it any more.
That allows Java's Garbage Collector to be able to reclaim the memory being used by that first instance
of the calculator.
Now, that doesn't necessarily mean that it will be reclaimed, as I've stated in a previous lesson.
We don't have much direct control over when the garbage collection actually occurs, but it does flag
that first calculator instance in this case to be eligible to be collected for garbage if and when the
JVM, the Java virtual machine decides that it makes sense to do so.
All right.
So the first instance of the calculator that was created before this method was run would now become
de referenced, meaning there is no variable that's referencing or referring to it anymore.
And a new calculator instance would be created and pointed to by this same field variable.
And now this method would be using that.
Now what's the difference between using this setup approach versus using the approach where we are initializing
the field directly here?
Well, one major difference is that if we were to comment this out for a moment, pretend like that's
not there.
One major difference would be that with this approach, there's just one instance of the calculator
that's going to be used for both of these methods or for all methods.
Well.
Actually, now let me take that back, one thing I forgot to do here.
We'd also want to go ahead and delete this line, right, because we don't need that line now.
That was duplication.
All right.
So in the event that now all of our methods are just using this field calc here with this approach where
we are initializing in the field declaration itself, all test methods would be using the same instance
of the calculator.
And that's an important thing to be mindful of because if our calculator class were capable of maintaining
state, and what that means is if our calculator class were capable of storing values in it and keeping
those values in it, the act of storing those values in this instance could affect subsequent calculations.
Now, I didn't say all of that to suggest that this is a bad approach because in this particular case,
where all we have is this simple add method, and especially currently our calculator does not maintain
state of any kind.
This is actually the more efficient thing to do at this time to create just one instance of the calculator
to be used with all of these methods, specifically because the calculator does not maintain state.
But if the calculator did maintain state and we wanted to ensure that on each test method, we got a
brand new pristine calculator every single time.
Then in that case, using this setup method might be the smarter way to go in many cases, because in
this case, like I said earlier, this method would be called right before each test method is called,
which gives us an opportunity to reset things right to reset up things in whatever way they need to
be set up or to clear things out or whatever it is that you might need.
Okay?
So that's probably the biggest distinction between initializing our system under test at the field declaration
versus doing it in the setup.
All right.
And so now that we've refactored our code, the smart thing to do before writing any more tests would
be to rerun all of the tests and make sure we did not break anything with our refactoring.
All right, so we'd want to run this again.
All right.
And everything still looks good.
We apparently haven't broken anything.
And I'm going to minimize this again.
All right.
So in the next lesson, we will look at how to consider testing edge cases.
So I'll see you in the next one.